# Our first UI

It's time to go through the basics of making a simple gui application using DOMINATOR!
Let's briefly go over the project setup, and then we'll get started.

## Program structure

A dominator project is a rust project that compiles to wasm.
This means we can use a fairly recognisable rust project structure.

To build the application for the browser, there are a few options available.
Throughout this tutorial, we will use `rollup` with the `@wasm-tool/rollup-plugin-rust`.

We will not cover the details of setting up a project with rollup here, but you can take a look at the `book/tutorials/hello-world` project for a simple example.
Feel free to modify the `rollup.config.js` file to suit your needs.

In the dist folder, we have the `index.html` file.
It is the entrypoint for our application, and it includes the js bootstrap file that will be generated by rollup.
This js file will set up the memory for and load the wasm module, and take care of any bindings we may need between v8 and the wasm world.

## The code

We start out with a very simple, yet obligatory, hello world example:

```rust
use dominator::{append_dom, body, html};
use wasm_bindgen::prelude::*;

#[wasm_bindgen(start)]
fn main() {
    append_dom(&body(), html!("h1", {
       .text("Hello, world!")
   }));
}
```

Although simple, there are a lot of things to unpack here!

The main function is annotated with `#[wasm_bindgen(start)]`.
This instructs `wasm_bindgen` to generate code such that the function will be called when the wasm module is loaded, much like the main function in a binary crate.

The `append_dom` function from dominator lets us attach a dom node we create from rust to the dom tree to an existing DOM node.
In this case, we use the `body` utility function, which effectively lets us add our node to the `<body>` node in our html file.

The `html!` macro from dominator will be our main tool for constructing dom HTML nodes.
The first parameter is the tag name to construct.

The second parameter is a list of chained method calls that will be applied to the `DomBuilder<HtmlElement>` instance used to construct the node.
Don't worry about understanding all the details of this just yet!
For now, be content to know that calling `.text()` within the block we pass to the macro will create a text node with the provided static text content!
